## Metrics for site

“In recent years, data-driven marketing has swept through the business world. In its wake, measurable performance and accountability have become the keys to marketing success. However, few managers appreciate the range of metrics by which they can evaluate marketing strategies and dynamics. Fewer still understand the pros, cons and nuances of each.” © Paul W. Farris, Neil T. Bendle, Phillip E. Pfeifer & David J. Reibstein

Indeed, in the modern world business wants to measure its success and performance in order to achieve better results and raise its revenue. A metric is a measuring system that quantifies a trend, dynamic or characteristic. Managers must select, calculate and explain key business metrics, however when they have no idea how to do it, they ask data scientists for help.

Once again, I was scrolling towardsdatascience.com when I found this article, and it inspired me to give you the following assignment. Please, keep in mind that this is just a source of inspiration, so do not use this as the source of guidelines.

Assignment Instructions

In this assignment we want you to work with functions in Python. In other words, do not overthink the assignment and concentrate on working with 8 metrics. Among all the marketing metrics, look at the following examples:

- **Click-Through Rate (CTR)** is calculated as “CTR = [Total Measured Clicks / Total Measured Ad Impressions] X 100”, where “total measured clicks” is the total amount of clicks on an ad; “total measured ad impressions” is the number of times an ad was loaded on a page. Click-through rates measure how successful an ad has been in capturing users' attention. The higher the click-through rate, the more successful the ad has been in generating interest.

- **Return on Investment (ROI)** is calculated as “[(Amount Gained – Amount Spent) / Amount Spent] X 100”, where “amount gained” is the amount of income that has been generated by an investment; “amount spent” is the total amount spent on an investment. ROI stands for Return on Investment and means the amount of money you get back relative to the amount of money you put into something. It is different to profit, which is simply the amount spent subtracted from the amount earned. ROI goes a step further and works out profit per the amount spent. This answers the question – how much profit can I earn per pound/dollar/euro etc spent.

- **Average Page Time** is calculated as “Average Page Time = [Σ(Time Spent on a Page by a User) / Number of Users]”, where “time spent on a page by a user” is time measured for each user who visits a webpage; “number of users” is the number of users who visit a webpage. Keep in mind, that usually users who spend less than 5 seconds on a webpage are not included in the calculations. Hint! You might think about parameters passed to a function as one of Python series structures.

- **Customer Lifetime Value (CLV)** is calculated as “CLV = [(Average Purchase Value – Average Purchase Frequency) X Average Customer Lifespan]” and used to predict how much revenue a customer will drive over time. To get more information how this metric is calculated, follow this link.

- Finally, the most important one is **Conversion Rate (CR)** which is calculated as “CR = [Total Attributed Conversion / Total Measured Clicks] X 100”, where “total attributed conversion” is the total amount of conversion recorded which have been caused clicks; “total clicks” – number of times an ad was clicked on.

Step-by-step Instructions

Now, what we expect you to do!

First of all, write functions to calculate 5 metrics described above. In this assignment we do not limit you in terms of input, so feel free to use whatever input you want to. However, I strongly recommend you not to think of data tables as the source of input (it’s clever, but there is no need to make this assignment too complicated). Again, the goal of this assignment is to evaluate your ability to work with functions. Hence, describe your functions using text in markdown cells, and then provide us with your code. While working on functions, remember about local and global variables, print or return statement (i.e. output of your functions), docstrings, etc. Think of scenarios like incorrect input and extreme cases while calculating metrics.

Think about other marketing metrics. Which of them you find particularly useful? Select three more metrics and write them in a form of functions in Python. Double-check, that you include formulas, description of the metrics, examples of how they are calculated, describe logic behind your Python code, and, finally, show several examples how your functions can be used (i.e. calculate metrics “by hand” and then calculate them using your functions).

Complete the task in Jupyter Notebook. Insert the programming code in code cells and text explanations in markdown cells. Make sure that you name your file appropriately (e.g. SGA2_Metrics_[your surname].ipynb).